README.rst, before:

.. image:: https://badge.waffle.io/jeethridge/ncaplite.png?label=ready&title=Ready
 :target: https://waffle.io/jeethridge/ncaplite
 :alt: 'Stories in Ready'
===============================
ncaplite
===============================

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ncaplite.svg
        :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ncaplite

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/travis/jeethridge/ncaplite.svg
        :target: https://travis-ci.org/jeethridge/ncaplite

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/ncaplite/badge/?version=latest
        :target: https://readthedocs.org/projects/ncaplite/?badge=latest
        :alt: Documentation Status


ncaplite contains a python package and reference design for implementing IEEE P21451-1 Network Capable Application Processor services

* Free software: MIT license
* Documentation: https://ncaplite.readthedocs.org.

Features
--------

* Join / unjoin
* Read sample from single transducer channel
* Read sample block data from single transducer channel
* Write sample to single transducer channel


Developer Setup Using Vagrant
-----------------------------

Pre-reqs
~~~~~~~~~

Make sure you have Virtualbox installed before continuing. The rest of
this document assumes you have installed Virtualbox and (optionally) the
Virtualbox Extension Pack for your OS.

Vagrant Setup
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Install `vagrant <http://www.vagrantup.com/>`__
2. Install vagrant-hostmanager with
   ``vagrant plugin install vagrant-hostmanager``
3. Clone this repository
   ``git clone git://github.com/jeethridge/ncaplite-vagrant``
4. Run ``vagrant up``
5. Connect your spark client to developer@ncaplite.loc

Udpating your hosts file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The preferred method is to do this automatically using a tool. I've
chosen to go with this project:

https://github.com/smdahlen/vagrant-hostmanager

Which can be installed by calling

::

    vagrant plugin install vagrant-hostmanager

This should automatically up date you hosts file when you call
``vagrant up`` *Note that you'll have to use sudo enter your password to
give permission to edit the hosts file during provisioning*

If for some reason you'd rather update hosts file manually:
http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/27350/beginner-geek-how-to-edit-your-hosts-file/

you'll want to add this entry:

Using Spark
~~~~~~~~~~~~

All the folks on the project up to this point seem to be using the Spark
client for manual testing, so I jumped on the bandwagon. You can get the
Spark client here:

http://www.igniterealtime.org/projects/spark/

*You should be able to ignore the rest of this section if you installed
vagrant-hostmanager*

If automatic discovery doesn't work you can use the following
workaround. you must specify the server IP address in the Advanced
options for the Spark client. The default configuration for the Vagrant
box is an IP of:

::

    10.10.100.4

Of course, you'll also have to specify this host address as an argument
when you run the NCAP. This IP is an arbitrary choice right now. I just
wanted an IP address that was unlikely to be used on a given developer
machine.

Prosody Installation
--------------------

I combined the info in these two articles and put in my own hostname in
the appropriate fields. The install consists mostly of defaults with a
few minor tweaks. The setup and user creation is taken care of
automatically in the provisioning.sh script.

1. http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/how-to-set-up-your-own-private-instant-messaging-server/

2. https://www.debian-administration.org/article/700/Using\_the\_prosody\_xmpp/chat\_server

Accounts
--------

There are three accounts set up on the server by default. These are:

+----------------------------------+------------+
| User                             | Password   |
+----------------------------------+------------+
| developer\@ncaplite.loc          | mypassword |
+----------------------------------+------------+
| ncap\@ncaplite.loc               | mypassword |
+----------------------------------+------------+
| unittest\@ncaplite.loc           | mypassword |
+----------------------------------+------------+

About the accounts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**developer\@ncaplite.loc** is intended for prototyping, developer
spikes, and general manual hankey-pankey

**unittest\@ncaplite.loc** is the client account you'll want to use in
your unit testing. The assumption for now in the tests is a single
connected client. This is obviously a stupid assumption, but we'll cross
that bridge at the right time.

**ncap\@ncaplite.loc** This is the account to be used by the NCAP server.

Connecting from the NCAP application.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Right now, I'm unable to create the SRV records that sleekXMPP looks for
in order to connect automatically, so we sill have to supply the
address,port tuple to the xmpp client, eg.

::

    ugly_hardcoded_address-('10.10.100.4',5222)
    xmpp.connect(ugly_hardcoded_address)


I've worked around this by handlibg it in ncapconfig.xml though.
So, you'll want specify the XMPP server address and port in there.
This at least keeps the network configuration separate from the
application code.

Python
~~~~~~~
The present version does not yet contain the python development
environment. Right now I'm just using this so I can spin up a local
jabber server to do some initial testing with. Once the framework is a
bit more locked in we'll add the python dev environment and a getting
started tutorial for other folks on the project.

I'm on Windows, please, God, help.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If anything comes up that requires a workaround on Windows boxes, we'll
try to document it here at first. Supposedly vagrant-hostmanager has
support for Windows hosts as well, so maybe this section will be pretty
sparse after all :).

**Note 1:** You'll want to run all of this stuff from an elevated
command prompt. I'm assuming/hoping this is enough for the OS to let the
scripts edit the hosts file without a fuss.


Credits
--------

This package was created with Cookiecutter_ and the `audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage`_ project template.

.. _Cookiecutter: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter
.. _`audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage`: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage

Commit message:

update docs with newer vagrant instructions

README.rst, after:

.. image:: https://badge.waffle.io/jeethridge/ncaplite.png?label=ready&title=Ready
 :target: https://waffle.io/jeethridge/ncaplite
 :alt: 'Stories in Ready'
===============================
ncaplite
===============================

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/ncaplite.svg
        :target: https://pypi.python.org/pypi/ncaplite

.. image:: https://img.shields.io/travis/jeethridge/ncaplite.svg
        :target: https://travis-ci.org/jeethridge/ncaplite

.. image:: https://readthedocs.org/projects/ncaplite/badge/?version=latest
        :target: https://readthedocs.org/projects/ncaplite/?badge=latest
        :alt: Documentation Status


ncaplite contains a python package and reference design for implementing IEEE P21451-1 Network Capable Application Processor services

* Free software: MIT license
* Documentation: https://ncaplite.readthedocs.org.

Features
--------

* Join / unjoin
* Read sample from single transducer channel
* Read sample block data from single transducer channel
* Write sample to single transducer channel


Developer Setup Using Vagrant
-----------------------------

Pre-reqs
~~~~~~~~~

Make sure you have Virtualbox installed before continuing. The rest of
this document assumes you have installed Virtualbox and (optionally) the
Virtualbox Extension Pack for your OS.

Vagrant Setup
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Install `vagrant <http://www.vagrantup.com/>`__
2. Install vagrant-hostmanager with
   ``vagrant plugin install vagrant-hostmanager``
3. Clone this repository and ``cd`` into it
4. Run ``vagrant up``
5. Connect your spark using developer@ncaplite.loc

Udpating your hosts file
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The preferred method is to do this automatically using a tool. I've
chosen to go with this project:

https://github.com/smdahlen/vagrant-hostmanager

Which can be installed by calling

::

    vagrant plugin install vagrant-hostmanager

This should automatically up date you hosts file when you call
``vagrant up`` *Note that you'll have to use sudo enter your password to
give permission to edit the hosts file during provisioning*

If for some reason you'd rather update hosts file manually:
http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/27350/beginner-geek-how-to-edit-your-hosts-file/

you'll want to add this entry:

Using Spark
~~~~~~~~~~~~

All the folks on the project up to this point seem to be using the Spark
client for manual testing, so I jumped on the bandwagon. You can get the
Spark client here:

http://www.igniterealtime.org/projects/spark/

*You should be able to ignore the rest of this section if you installed
vagrant-hostmanager*

If automatic discovery doesn't work you can use the following
workaround. you must specify the server IP address in the Advanced
options for the Spark client. The default configuration for the Vagrant
box is an IP of:

::

    10.10.100.4

Of course, you'll also have to specify this host address as an argument
when you run the NCAP. This IP is an arbitrary choice right now. I just
wanted an IP address that was unlikely to be used on a given developer
machine.

Prosody Installation
--------------------

I combined the info in these two articles and put in my own hostname in
the appropriate fields. The install consists mostly of defaults with a
few minor tweaks. The setup and user creation is taken care of
automatically in the provisioning.sh script.

1. http://arstechnica.com/information-technology/2014/03/how-to-set-up-your-own-private-instant-messaging-server/

2. https://www.debian-administration.org/article/700/Using\_the\_prosody\_xmpp/chat\_server

Accounts
--------

There are three accounts set up on the server by default. These are:

+----------------------------------+------------+
| User                             | Password   |
+----------------------------------+------------+
| developer\@ncaplite.loc          | mypassword |
+----------------------------------+------------+
| ncap\@ncaplite.loc               | mypassword |
+----------------------------------+------------+
| unittest\@ncaplite.loc           | mypassword |
+----------------------------------+------------+

About the accounts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**developer\@ncaplite.loc** is intended for prototyping, developer
spikes, and general manual hankey-pankey

**unittest\@ncaplite.loc** is the client account you'll want to use in
your unit testing. The assumption for now in the tests is a single
connected client. This is obviously a stupid assumption, but we'll cross
that bridge at the right time.

**ncap\@ncaplite.loc** This is the account to be used by the NCAP server.

Connecting from the NCAP application.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Right now, I'm unable to create the SRV records that sleekXMPP looks for
in order to connect automatically, so we sill have to supply the
address,port tuple to the xmpp client, eg.

::

    ugly_hardcoded_address-('10.10.100.4',5222)
    xmpp.connect(ugly_hardcoded_address)


I've worked around this by handlibg it in ncapconfig.xml though.
So, you'll want specify the XMPP server address and port in there.
This at least keeps the network configuration separate from the
application code.

Python
~~~~~~~
The present version does not yet contain the python development
environment. Right now I'm just using this so I can spin up a local
jabber server to do some initial testing with. Once the framework is a
bit more locked in we'll add the python dev environment and a getting
started tutorial for other folks on the project.

I'm on Windows, please, God, help.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If anything comes up that requires a workaround on Windows boxes, we'll
try to document it here at first. Supposedly vagrant-hostmanager has
support for Windows hosts as well, so maybe this section will be pretty
sparse after all :).

**Note 1:** You'll want to run all of this stuff from an elevated
command prompt. I'm assuming/hoping this is enough for the OS to let the
scripts edit the hosts file without a fuss.


Credits
--------

This package was created with Cookiecutter_ and the `audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage`_ project template.

.. _Cookiecutter: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter
.. _`audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage`: https://github.com/audreyr/cookiecutter-pypackage
